Using visualizations and descriptions associated with them, presenters are able to convey information to the audience in a more appealing and efficient way. However, if there are too much details or complexity, the audience could be overwhelmed with too much information and the presentation will lead to confusion. 
In order to achieve effective communication, presenters usually take efforts to provide clear visual guidance  to communicate key concepts without confusion. Instead of leaving audience to search for all objects of interest, presenters try to use visual cues that guide attention to a particular area of a visualization, typically by dimming the background and emphasizing the focus areas. A good presentation takes advantage of visual element characteristics, such as visuospatial contrast (e.g., color) and dynamic contrast (e.g., movement), to help user reduce visual search and decrease the perceptual load. In the meanwhile, more unclaimed mental resources can be utilized to facilitate the cognitive process. 

Our presentation of the automatic annotation of visualization combine internal visual cues with external visual cues. The former involves only modification of existing components,
and the latter appends new components to the visualization. 
Internal cues utilize focus+context techniques to emphasize the focus area and de-emphasize the remainder of the image (i.e., the context), helping audience to distinguish the focus parts from the context or background. 
For visualizations with axes, it is a good choice to apply contrast-based internal visual cues, which modify characteristics like transparency, saturation, and depth of field, and brightness of visual elements. We also apply color modification on annotation text to assist in drawing audience's attention.
External cues include adding a contour around the focus area, showing textual annotations, creating auxiliary lines and glyphs and so on. 
We also take advantage of time-variant cueing. We add transition to the appearance and exit of visual effects, animation to the entrance of a newly created component, and movement to the spatial position of description text. 

The input of our system includes a visualization image and a story script associated with it. The output is a presentation of a series of visualizations with annotation according to corresponding descriptions.